In previous videos we explored
the information action value chain, which
starts with events in the real world and
ends with an action in the marketplace.
In this video we start diving into
that value chain in more detail
beginning with events in the real world.
It turns out that just about anything in
the real world can be turned into data.
Technology is continually
allowing us to push the envelope,
both in terms of the types and
information that can be captured and
the sheer volume of data that
can be captured and stored.
We couldn't possibly cover everything
that might be available to you
with the analyst, but what we will do
is outline some of the major types of
real-world phenomena that might be of
interest to you and your business.
We'll break our discussion into two parts.
First, we'll talk about people.
Who they are and what they do.
Then we'll talk about things,
objects, and the environment.
Let's start with people.
People have characteristics that describe
them, like age, gender, nationality,
ethnicity, race, marital and
familial status.
Educational level,
socioeconomic status, housing status.
The list goes on and on.
People also have preferences,
beliefs, attitudes and
motivations that help define who they are.
They may not be obvious or
easy to get, but they do exist and
there are methods of capturing
information about them.
We often group these characteristics into
a few broad categories that you might
encounter in a business context.
Namely demographics,
psychographics and technographics.
Demographics broadly describe population
level characteristics like age,
gender, nationality, etc.
And are the most widely used
characteristics in a lot of different
types of analysis.
Psychographics speak more to people's
opinions, attitudes, and interests.
They include preferences,
likes and dislikes, and
tend to reveal insights about why
people do the things they do.
Technographics are really a subset of
psychographics which focus on how people
approach technology and
what their motivations and
attitudes are about using new and
existing technologies.
Certainly there are other
categories of attributes.
In some areas, like healthcare,
the notion of personal attributes can go
a lot deeper to include a whole host of
physical attributes that might be
important to a business organization.
Some of these characteristics
also imply events.
Age implies birthdays,
marital status might imply a wedding or
anniversary, education
implies graduations.
All of these related events could
be of interest to the business and
to the analyst.
In addition to characteristics,
people also have identifiers.
They have names, addresses,
telephone numbers, email addresses,
Facebook and Twitter handles.
And all sorts of unique attributes
that might be used to identify them in
the real world.
Let's shift slightly from people
themselves to where those people are and
where they go.
We can think about this
in at least two ways.
First, we can think about
the idea of physical location.
Where people live, how they move, and
where they are at any given time.
People commute, they travel.
And they have natural patterns of
movement in their day-to-day lives.
We can also think about
location in the virtual sense.
People can navigate through the online
environment via web browsing.
They can frequent certain websites or
be present at a given time
at an online location.
Of course, they are also accessing the web
from some physical location as well.
And thanks to mobile connectivity,
they may even be moving while doing it.
In many industries,
some of the most important and
frequently used information
is around transaction or
events that involve an exchange
between people or businesses.
Far and away,
the most common transaction of interest
in business analytics is a purchase,
the event where someone buys a product or
service that our company is selling.
But there are a wide array of other
types of transactions, like investments,
transfers, execution of contracts,
accounting entries.
Or more detailed elements of purchase
transactions, like placed orders or
payment processing events.
A closely related idea is that
of consumption, or usage.
Often how people use our products and
services, or
how much of them they consume, is equally,
if not more, important than the buying of
those products and services themselves.
Many of these examples are in
telecommunications and
utilities, where we are interested in
things like minutes of use or megabyte or
data consumption, or
electricity, gas or water usage.
The volumes and patterns of usage behavior
often provide key insights to a business.
We also recognize that people
interact with our business and
with each other in the real world.
We may interact with people
through mass marketing or
traditional outbound communications
like mail, email, text, or phone calls.
Businesses often have customer care
organizations that interact with customers
in call centers or via online chats.
Businesses also participate in social
media interactions with customers via
social networking sites and services.
Of course, the vast majority of
interactions that people have are not
directly related to our business.
People are in constant
communication with each other,
using many of those same mechanisms.
They form communities and networks,
establishing patterns of
behaviors of communication.
Like personal characteristics, not all of
these interactions can be observed but
an increasingly large percentage of key
interactions actually can be observed and
can be used in our analysis.
Okay, while not exhaustive,
that's a pretty broad look at people.
Let's pivot to things in the real world
that are not people, like objects and
environmental events,
where some of the same ideas apply.
Like people, objects including the
products we sell, have characteristics.
Size, shape weight, features and
functions, color, and
a potentially long list of technical
specifications or other qualifiers.
Objects also have a physical location and
can move.
Think about the delivery
path of a package or
how your luggage moves
when you take a flight.
Consider the way raw materials might enter
a factory and are progressively passed
through an assembly line,
turned into a product and warehoused.
We also tend to sell products in and
through sales channels like stores or
websites.
There are a wide variety of supply chain,
logistics, and transportation applications
where the location and movement of
objects are critical to the function of
a business, and where there
are opportunities for data analytics.
Furthermore, objects don't just exist and
get moved around.
They can actually do things,
especially in machines.
Engines run, air conditioning systems
maintain temperatures and turn on and off.
Computers run programs and process data.
Advances in sensor and
communications technology
are allowing a vast mount of machine data
to be generated and made available for
monitoring and analytic application.
Ideas like the connected home, and even
the intersection of machine data and human
physical data, like the connected body,
are becoming more and more prevalent.
Beyond people and objects, there
are still a host of other natural and
non-natural events and phenomena that
can have an influence on our business.
On one side there are things like seasons,
temperature and weather.
Tides and currents, major events like
earthquakes and a variety of other
biological or cosmic phenomenon that
occur in the natural environment.
There are also non-natural events or
patterns that are initiated or
influenced by people.
Like weekdays and weekends, holidays,
major sporting events, gatherings,
traffic accidents, elections,
war, and conflicts.
And there are events with natural and
non-natural drivers.
Like outbreaks of disease or famine.
Both natural and non-natural events can
have a significant impact on a business.
Think about the impact of weather on air
travel or the impact of a major event
like the Superbowl or World Cup on
television viewership or internet usage.
The impact of major world events can
obviously have an enormous impact on
people as well as businesses.
The most important takeaway
from all of this of course,
is the recognition that just about
everything you will be looking at as
a data analyst starts as
something in the real world.
The second thing you should appreciate at
this point is that there are an awful lot
of things out there for
you to potentially access and use.